doc(static-typing): rewrite with GraphQL Code Generator setup (#10173)
apollographql/apollo-client: docs/source/development-testing/static-typing.md

These docs assume you already have TypeScript configured in your project, if not start [here](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript-React-Conversion-Guide#typescript-react-conversion-guide).

The most common need when using type systems with GraphQL is to type the results of an operation. Given that a GraphQL server's schema is strongly typed, we can generate TypeScript definitions automatically using a tool like [GraphQL Code Generator](https://www.the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen).

> This docs will guide you in installing and configuring it to type hooks, render prop components and high order components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This docs will guide you in installing and configuring it to type hooks, render prop components and higher-order components.
```

## Prerequesites

Before looking into specific typing (hooks, render props, HoC), install the following packages:

```bash
yarn add -D typescript
yarn add -D @graphql-codegen/cli
yarn add -D @graphql-codegen/client-preset
```

Then, create a `codegen.ts` configuration file at the root of your project:

```ts
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: '<URL_OF_GRAPHQL_API>',
  documents: ['src/**/*.tsx'],
  generates: {
    './src/gql/': {
      preset: 'client',
      plugins: [],
      presetConfig: {
        gqlTagName: 'gql',
      }
    }
  },
  ignoreNoDocuments: true,
}

export default config
```

Finally, add the following npm script to your `package.json`:

```json
{
  "scripts": {

>     "codegen": "graphql-codegen -w"

Reviewer: I don't have a strong opinion on this, but WDYT about defining a script with watch mode and a script without?  That way we could add a sentence or two specifying that the watch mode is ideal for development, whereas the default execution is good for git hooks and CI.  Just a thought, I think this is good to merge as-is, we can always iterate later

Author: Updated!

>     "codegen": "graphql-codegen -w"

Author: ```suggestion
    "compile": "graphql-codegen", 
    "watch": "graphql-codegen -w",
```

These docs assume you already have TypeScript configured in your project, if not start [here](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript-React-Conversion-Guide#typescript-react-conversion-guide).

The most common need when using type systems with GraphQL is to type the results of an operation. Given that a GraphQL server's schema is strongly typed, we can generate TypeScript definitions automatically using a tool like [GraphQL Code Generator](https://www.the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen).

> Below, we'll guide you through installing and configuring GraphQL Code Generator to generate types for your hooks and components.

Reviewer 2: We'll need to insert a line here to break this out to a separate paragraph:
```suggestion

Below, we'll guide you through installing and configuring GraphQL Code Generator to generate types for your hooks and components.
```

## Setting up your project

> To get started using GraphQL Code Generator to generate TypeScript types, we'll begin by installing the following packages (using Yarn or NPM):

Reviewer 2: Making this sentence a little less wordy:
```suggestion
To get started using GraphQL Code Generator, we'll begin by installing the following packages (using Yarn or NPM):
```

```bash
yarn add -D typescript @graphql-codegen/cli @graphql-codegen/client-preset
yarn add -D @graphql-codegen/cli
yarn add -D @graphql-codegen/client-preset
```

Next, we'll create a configuration file for GraphQL Code Generator, named [`codegen.ts`](https://www.the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen/docs/config-reference/codegen-config), at the root of our project:

```ts title="codegen.ts"

> import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import { CodegenConfig } from '@graphql-codegen/cli';
```

const config: CodegenConfig = {
  schema: '<URL_OF_YOUR_GRAPHQL_API>',
  documents: ['src/**/*.tsx'],
  generates: {
    './src/__generated__/': {
      preset: 'client',
      plugins: [],
      presetConfig: {
        gqlTagName: 'gql',
      }
    }
  },
  ignoreNoDocuments: true,

> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
};
```

> export default config

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export default config;
```

```

> There are multiple ways to [specify a schema](https://www.the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen/docs/config-reference/schema-field#root-level) in your `codegen.ts`, so pick the way that works best for your project setup.

Reviewer 2: Thinking about this further, I think this note would make a lovely callout:
```suggestion
> There are multiple ways to [specify a schema](https://www.the-guild.dev/graphql/codegen/docs/config-reference/schema-field#root-level) in your `codegen.ts`, so pick the way that works best for your project setup.
```

Finally, we'll add the following scripts to our `package.json` file:

```json title="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "compile": "graphql-codegen",
    "watch": "graphql-codegen -w",
  }
}
```

> GraphQL Code Generator generates types based on our GraphQL schema if we run either code-generation scripts above:

Reviewer 2: This was probably my suggestion's bad:
```suggestion
GraphQL Code Generator generates types based on our GraphQL schema if we run either code-generation script above:
```

      stock
    }
  }
`);

export function RocketInventoryList() {

>   // `data` is typed!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // data is typed!
```

### `useMutation`

> Typing `useMutation()` works in a similar way as `useQuery()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can type our `useMutation()` hooks the same way we type our `useQuery()` hooks.
```

> By defining your GraphQL document with the generated `gql()` function, your mutation variables and data will get automatically typed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use the generated `gql()` function to define our GraphQL mutations, ensuring our mutation's variables and data are typed:
```

```tsx
import React, { useState } from 'react';
import { useMutation } from '@apollo/client';

> import { gql } from '../src/gql';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import { gql } from '../src/__generated__/gql';
```

const SAVE_ROCKET = gql(/* GraphQL */ `
  mutation saveRocket($rocket: RocketInput!) {
    saveRocket(rocket: $rocket) {
      model
    }
  }
`);

export function NewRocketForm() {
  const [model, setModel] = useState('');
  const [year, setYear] = useState(0);
  const [stock, setStock] = useState(0);

>   // `data` is typed!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // data is typed!
```

  const [saveRocket, { error, data }] = useMutation(SAVE_ROCKET, {

>     // variables are also typed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // our variables are also typed!
```

### `useSubscription`

> By defining your GraphQL document with the generated `gql()` function, your subscriptions variables and data will get automatically typed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use the generated `gql()` function to define our GraphQL subscriptions, ensuring our subscription's variables and data are typed:
```

## Typing Render Prop Components

> Your first need to write your GraphQL documents with the generated `gql()` function, exported from `./src/gql`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To type your render prop components, you'll first define a GraphQL query using the generated `gql()` function (from `src/__generated__/gql`). This creates a type for that query and its variables, which you can then pass to your `Query` component: 
```

> This will generate the associated Query and Query variables types that will be passed to the `<Query>` component:

Reviewer 2: My previous suggestion combines these two sentences :) 
```suggestion
```

```tsx

> import { graphql, AllPeopleQuery, AllPeopleQueryVariables } from '../src/gql';

Reviewer 2: Do we need to import `graphql` here? I'm honestly curious, I'm not sure. Updating the import for my previous suggestion:

```suggestion
import { graphql, AllPeopleQuery, AllPeopleQueryVariables } from '../src/__generated__/gql';
```

## Typing Higher Order Components

> Your first need to write your GraphQL documents with the generated `gql()` function exported from `./src/gql`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To type high-order components, begin by defining your GraphQL documents with the generated `gql()` function (from `./src/__generated__/gql`).
```

> This will generate the associated Query and Query variables types: `GetCharacterQuery` and `GetCharacterQueryVariables`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the below example, this generates the query and variable types (`GetCharacterQuery` and `GetCharacterQueryVariables`).
```

> Since the result of a query will be sent to the wrapped component as props, we want to be able to tell our type system the shape of those props. Here is an example setting types for an operation using the `graphql` higher order component (**note**: the follow sections also work for the query, mutation, and subscription hocs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the result of a query will be sent to the wrapped component as props, we want to be able to tell our type system the shape of those props. Here is an example setting types for an operation using the `graphql` higher-order component (**note**: the follow sections also work for the query, mutation, and subscription hocs).
```

Reviewer 2: Further suggestions for style: 
```suggestion
Our wrapped component receives the query's result as props. So, we need to tell our type system the _shape_ of these props. Below is an example of setting types for an operation using the `graphql` higher-order component. 

> The following logic also works for the query, mutation, and subscription higher-order components!
```
